# Developer Documentation

## Contributing
Please read the [contributing guidelines here](https://github.com/graycore/daffodil/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Build

Run `ng build core` to build the @daffodil/core project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `-prod` flag for a production build.

## Release

After updating the version and navigating to the dist folder, run `npm publish` to publish the current version of @daffodil/core to npm.

## Running unit tests

Run `ng test` to execute the unit tests via [Karma](https://karma-runner.github.io).

To run an individual suite:

```
ng test core
ng test foundation-demo
```

## Running the example foundation-demo

### Prerequisites
* `Lerna` - `npm install --g lerna`.
* `Angular CLI` - `npm install -g @angular/cli`

### Commands
1. Clone this repo `git clone https://github.com/graycoreio/daffodil.git`
2. `cd daffodil`
2. `lerna bootstrap`
3. `ng build core`
4. `ng serve --project=foundation-demo`
5. Navigate to `localhost:4200` in your browser of choice

### Explanation of foundation-demo commands.
Daffodil is structured as a monorepo using `nrwl/nx`. We utilize `lerna` to manage all the child packages that are generated by the repo as well as install their dependencies when needed. `ng build core` will compile the `@daffodil/core` into the dist folder which the `foundation-demo` lists as a dependency.

### Developing the example foundation-demo
Generally speaking, you don't want to depend directly on the source of a project when developing, as that can cause unexpected issues at build and deployment time. Yet, there are instances when quick development cycles that don't require a full rebuild can drastically improve development efficiency. For this reason, we have opted to create a secondary project `foundation-demo-dev` which can utilized for rapid feature prototyping. Do note that this project does not support `lint`ing or `build`ing, it only serves the purposes of the internal `daffodil` development team.
